# Band saw hood
This acrylic band saw hood design installs under the table of a Record Power
Sabre 350 band saw and allows dust extraction using a regular mobile dust
extractor. Since this catches dust close to its origin, this works pretty
decently and avoids the need to install a proper workshop dust extraction
system (for now :-D).

## Disclaimer
**THIS IS MY PERSONAL LAYMAN DESIGN. DO NOT TRY THIS AT HOME. IF YOU STILL DO,
USE AT YOUR OWN RISK - THIS MAY OR MAY NOT DAMAGE YOUR HEALTH AND/OR SAW.**

## Design notes
The design uses front, left, right, back language as seen from the side facing
the blade (i.e. the feed direction), so the _back_ side goes next to the
trunnions.

I have used inkscape to draw the parts. In hindsight, this was probably not the
best of ideas, since it is somewhat cumbersome to draw at exact measurements.
But plenty of guides + snapping + transformation tools did get the job done.

## Fabrication
The parts are meant to be laser-cut in 3mm acrylic. See the `bom.txt` file for
the required part quantities or just use the `all_parts.pdf` file which has all
parts in the needed quantities laid out on 2 DIN A4 pages.  Since I don't own
or have easy access to a laser cutter, I have ordered the parts from a
commercial laser cutting service.

## Installation notes
 The hood is meant to install below the table, making use of existing bores:
The blade protection mount bore in the front, and a metal bracket mounted on
top of the guide assembly base. The latter attaches to the back part of the
hood with a nut & bolt. The other side of the bracket holds a bolt that threads
through a bore on the front part of the hood (and secured with e.g. a knurled
nut). An M6 threaded rod is needed to go hold together the front and back of
the hood at the top.

The hood design relies on mortise and tenon style connections between the
parts. Some are meant to snug fit permanently, others fit loosely to allow
disassembly by hand (e.g. when changing blades). Assembly generally proceeds by
installing the left, right and then front parts (in order), then securing the
bolts.

Table tilt is a bit of a pain, since the table casting and bolts pivot quite a
bit and get in the way. I couldn't come up with a practical solution to make
the hood close properly even at full table tilt, so the design includes 3
different variations of the right part. The tall one provides the best dust
funnel but requires the table to be horizontal, a smaller one foregoes the top
section and works until some 30 degrees tilt, and third variant has a cutout
which will allow the table mount to pivot to the full 45 degrees of tilt (but
at the expense of losing some extraction performance obviously).
